# Flight-Booking-Website
In this project, a real-world problem was chosen to apply the conceptual database design theories introduced in EE467 DATABASES course. However, the designing and implementation phase follows the conceptional design techniques, first to declare entities, attributes, and domain. After that, the relationships and ratios were highlighted in the EER model. The business rules will be applied on the database application chosen and discussed, then the database will be implemented in MySQL and the tables will be filled using an online collected database. Furthermore, a front-end designing will be implemented using HTML, CSS, Java Script to build an online page forms and access to the database using XAMPP. This report contains all the details regarding the work done on the database application, the chosen application will be explained, then the EER data model will be illustrated, followed by the back-end programming to implement the database design, and finally, the front-end designing will be shown.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The real-world model chosen for this project is “Airline Ticket Reservation System”. The main purpose of the system is to display the available tickets and make reservations. The current system is manual, this system is time consuming and it is very difficult for each person to book through office agents. Users inquire about the tickets through phones and it is very difficult for the user to remember all the details that they received through phones. It is very difficult to calculate how many peoples registered and how many seats on a particular plane arevacant. This requires quite a lot of time and wastage of money as it requires quite lot of manpower to do.
Furthermore, the developed system will facilitate online booking; keep customer records, provides an onlinemenu on flight schedules, flight destinations and their prices, show alternative links to other partner airlines and will have page dedicated to customer queries and replies. The system excludes catering for calculating staff salary and other management issues. For that, the flights, passengers, tickets, and airplanes data were required to be recoded in a secure database.

